Add volume backup and restore tutorial (#49452)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tutorials/volume-backup/volume-backup-restore.md

Author: Definately will do

---
title: Volume Backup, Delete and Restore 
content_type: tutorial
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

> This tutorial provides an introduction about taking backup of volume and restoring it. It demonstrates how to create, delete, and restore the volume using gzip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial provides an introduction to taking backups of a volume and restoring it. It demonstrates how to create, delete, and restore the volume using [gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/).
```

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}
Before you begin this tutorial, you should familiarize yourself with the following Kubernetes concepts:

* [Pods](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
* [PersistentVolumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/)
* The [kubectl](/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/) command line tool

{{% include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" %}}

> You should configure kubectl to use a context that uses the default namespace. If you are using an existing cluster, make sure that it's OK to use that cluster's default namespace to practice. Ideally, practice in a cluster that doesn't run any real workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should configure kubectl to use a context that uses the default namespace. If you are using an existing cluster, make sure it's okay to use that cluster's default namespace to practice. Ideally, practice in a cluster that doesn't run any real workloads.
```

## {{% heading "objectives" %}}
After this tutorial, you will be familiar with the following.

> 1. Understanding the Importance of Volume Backups
> 2. Backing Up Kubernetes Volumes
> 3. Deleting and Recreating Volumes
> 4. Restoring Applications with Backed-Up Data
> 5. Practical Workflow for Backup and Restore

Reviewer: - The system automatically handles the numbering.
- I also updated each sentence in the list to use sentence-style capitalization.
```suggestion
1. Understanding the importance of volume backups
1. Backing up Kubernetes volumes
1. Deleting and recreating volumes
1. Restoring applications with backed-up data
1. Practical workflow for backup and restore
```

> Use existing yaml file from  [Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage](/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-persistent-volume-storage/) to cofigure  PersistentVolume (PV) and PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) follow the steps from begining for creating ```hostpath``` and ```index.html``` file as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the existing yaml file from the [Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage](/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-persistent-volume-storage/) task, to configure PersistentVolume (PV) and PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC). Then follow the steps from the beginning, to create a `hostpath` and `index.html` file as well.
```

Reviewer: Hi @niranjandarshann, this hasn't been marked as resolved.

---
title: Volume Backup, Delete and Restore 
content_type: tutorial
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->
This tutorial provides an introduction to taking backups of a volume and restoring it. It demonstrates how to create, delete, and restore the volume using [gzip](https://www.gnu.org/software/gzip/).

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}
Before you begin this tutorial, you should familiarize yourself with the following Kubernetes concepts:

* [Pods](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
* [PersistentVolumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/)
* The [kubectl](/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/) command line tool

{{% include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" %}}

You should configure kubectl to use a context that uses the default namespace. If you are
using an existing cluster, make sure it's okay to use that cluster's default namespace to

> practice. Ideally, practice in a cluster that doesn't run any real workloads.

Reviewer 2: How about using a custom namespace just for the tutorial?

## {{% heading "objectives" %}}
After this tutorial, you will be familiar with the following.
1. Understanding the importance of volume backups
1. Backing up kubernetes volumes
1. Deleting and recreating volumes
1. Restoring applications with backed-up data
1. Practical workflow for backup and restore

> 

Author: Agree will do
